# 3. Flow Control Reflection

<!-- Write your reflection here. Use the Reflection Guidelines for help framing your reflection.

https://github.com/Devbootcamp/phase-0-handbook/blob/master/coding-references/reflection-guidelines.md
 -->

Of everything that I've learnt so far flow control is where the magic happens for me. It does exactly what computers are supposed to do: quick repetitive responses. You might wonder, what is flow control? Flow control, or rather control flow, is the process that the computer takes in executing certain instructions and/or functions of a program. That's basically it. For example, let's assume you are an employee of a small web-based business that accepts payment via Visa credit cards only. What if someone tries to make a payment via Amex, Mastercard, or Paypal? If you were to monitor the payments without a computer program, you'd have to tell this person over-and-over again that his/her payment has been rejected. OR, you could write a program, specifically a code that contains control flow, and the computer will do the annoying "over-and-over" again part quickly, patiently, and exactly. Here's more elaborate information on control flow in the world of computer science: [Control Flow](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_flow).
Now that the concept of control flow is clear (hopefully), coding it becomes much easier because it's all based on logic. When I did the DBC's challenges associated with control flow ([here](https://github.com/amir-beheshty/phase-0-unit-1/tree/master/week-3/3-flow-control)) I learned that it's best practice to ALWAYS place "end" immediately after opening an "if" statement. Trust me on this, just do it. Because if you forget to do it (I did) you'll spend some unnecessary time trying to identify the bug in your code. Another concept that was confusing to me initially was the difference between "=" and "==". It's simple. "=" is a Ruby (and most other languages) object that tells the computer "hey set x = y". Conceptually, "x = y" doesn't mean x is equals to y, it means I'm **assigning y to x**. What about writing "x==y"? Well, "x==y" tells the computer to **compare** x and y; if they're the same the program will return *true*, otherwise *false*. Anyways, that's my reflection for the Flow Control section, I hope it was informative. Feedbacks are welcome!